Now, in order for us to use view model, we compose Android compose here.
We need to get a few things.
So if you go to Google and say Compose Android View Model and you want to go to the second usually second
hit that says developer, that Android Jetpack Library is OK, so it's quick there.
And here you can read more about few models, so there is a lot of information you can spend hours and
hours and days and so forth.
But what I really want to to emphasize here and take time to read it or some things are a little bit
advanced, but that's OK.
Scroll down until you see the full model, OK, here.
So it says if you use the architectural components of your model library, you can access if you model
from any composer by calling view model.
This is good, but there is a caution here to say to use a few model functions, add the Android Lifecycle
View model compose and the version number here now.
This may change this version, but that's what we are at this point.
So this is what we need to add or build a Gradle in order for us to get the review model lifecycle.
Go ahead and copy this.
Go back to our code project and I'm going to open Gradle.
Close this down the second Gradle there.
And scroll down.
We have a lot of squiggly lines here.
It's fine, so what I'm going to do is right down here when I say implementation, I could put as an
object dependency or I can just say like this double quotes and paste that code there.
I believe that now we also will have to change to to that.
Fordow was an old one.
They would go with just click and it's going to do that.
Now here is everything that you may notice.
OK.
Whenever you come to build a Gradle and you see that all of these have squiggly lines, in fact, if
you have over is going to change to that version, you can go ahead and continue, or you can just go
ahead and say it out option.
Enter and go ahead and do all of that.
Now this one, here you notice that it says that in our version of Android Compose UI, OK?
There's a new version that is one that oh, that for now, here's the thing most likely you're going
to have a lot of errors if you start changing, especially decompose version.
Here's what I'm going to show you how to fix a few things here, right?
I'm not saying you're going to have this errors.
If you don't, then that's great.
But if you do, here's all you do the compose version you can see that is a variable.
Where is this?
Where is this declared?
Well, this is declared inside of or build a Gradle.
The this first one, so click.
It's here.
So what do you want to do as a recording this video?
We need to go to one that oh, that for.
OK, great.
And also, most likely, you will see a squiggly line in our build that cradle in our cradle here.
So we're going to change that to seven and older three again.
These numbers may change.
In fact, they will be different when by the time you watch this video could probably be seven by 10
or seven or eight.
That, oh, that one doesn't matter, but just go ahead.
And in this case here, let's go ahead and change to seven or three now because I know this will happen.
You have to also change this to three.
Like this again?
You don't have to change anything if everything is up to date.
It's only if it's not up to date.
If you change to seven 03 in this case at the moment, at this moment when I am recording this video,
it will require you to change the Catlin plug in grade or plug in to one five three.
By the time you any time you watch this video could be higher.
All right.
Now, if let's go back to our previous grade or here, you can see that we should be fairly OK.
Let's go ahead and do the same to others that are not really important to us.
But since we're here, we're going to do it anyway.
Let's go ahead and sync a real quick.
Might take a little bit.
It looks like everything is great right now.
And what I usually like to do, I like to run the app right away, just make sure that we didn't make
mistakes and things are not working anymore.
So this is an old.
Just give it a time.
All right.
It looks like everything is running smoothly.
And that's good.
I can delete.
OK, good.
So all of the updates didn't mess up with our code.
It's always good news now that we have this new model dependency.
We're going to implement it.
Let's go ahead and close this down to show just code.
So I usually like to add a view model close to the main screen per se.
In this case, notes screen is what governs everything.
So I'm going to say command end or right click, and I want to create a court ruling class.
This is going to be just a class.
Let's call this note.
Review model, and the naming is very important, so whenever you notice that we expanded view model
to the name of our field, one of our few model that way because we may have more than one few models.
In fact, most most apps have more than one view model, so it's nice to connect or to obtain that view
model.
So we know it is indeed, if you model.
OK, so there you go.
And in this case here, this will inherit the view model.
As such, get the first one there.
That's A. X life cycle.
And of course, pass in there.
The constructor there.
All right.
There we go.
So it's just a normal class, but with more power.
So first, I'm want to create a variable section to call this note list, and I'm going to say mutable.
It's going to make this immutable list mutable state.
That is that there's a difference because we want to capture the state and then right away, it will
tell us, OK, what is the type?
We are going to allow this to hold?
It's going to be note type.
They have to import that, make sure we get our note model like this.
All right.
And next here, this is the beauty.
What are we going to do now is I'm going to create a few function.
First functions going to be the add note such and of course, this add note would need to pass an actual
note note object.
And then all I have to do because I have this note list and mutable type state, there was a note list.
And then because it's just a list, I can say add I can add an element, what element it would add it's
going to be a note object.
That's it.
The single source of truth.
And then to remove them, I say, remove note and we're passing, of course, again and note object.
And I would say yes.
Note list dot remove element.
Which element is that going to be?
It's going to be the note object.
And this wants to make it.
Let's make it private because it's just being used here, and I'm going to create another function here
that will get all of the notes.
I would say fun.
Get old notes.
Can I return?
Write a list of notes or objects and when to return?
Note list like that.
And there you have it.
Now we've put everything, we've hosted everything.
The responsibility now of our data and the state of our list is inside of our review model.
And because this is just like any other class, I'm going to pass it here and not block because they
want to have some data when we initialize this note view model, right?
So I'm going to see note list.
I'm going to that add all, just pass a collection of elements and I'm going to get all of those from.
Notes data source.
Right?
Right.
So we have something to work with.
When they first start the app and say load notes, now, how do we then invoke the note view model?
It's very simple.
Look at this instead of our main activity instead of having this.
What we had this source here, we know that this doesn't work for what we want, right?
We're going to change that.
First of all, I'm going to create a composable here just to simplify our lives, say composable, right,
call these notes, find notes app and this I'm going to pass the data right as an argument here.
So I'm going to say note view model.
Look at that.
It even gives us the chance to choose hat just like that.
And inside here I can go ahead.
The actual view model, how do you do that?
Just a few model like this.
So now the compiler, we know when we say, note every model, we're going to use things shade per,
say, a view model, which is what we have all of this.
In fact, you can see if I highlight that if I'm back here, you see an old view model is highlighted.
So we think shaded or using our an old view model.
So that means now inside of our Notes app here, which we're going to call here in a second here, I'm
going to call actually all of this.
Our notes, I'm going to cut all of this.
And call it here.
And of course, we need to add the experimental right.
Two notes app like this, and we got to change a few things, first of all, he doesn't know what this
note says.
That's fine.
We have an old view model here so we can actually go and get our all of our notes.
So when I create a vowel or variable here call notes list and it's going to be our note review model.
This guy here.
So we're getting our note, a model.
Analysts say does it get old notes?
Look at this now not list.
We'll go and get all notes.
Well, it returns no to list, which is our private variable here, which is mutable state list containing
note that note object.
And we say that initially it should have.
These dummy data from our load notes.
You see now what's going on.
OK, so now that we have our list, I can just pass here, so I say notes list as such and then here,
I don't no longer have to do any of that.
Why?
Because I can go straight to the actual view model and say, note, if you model right dot, invoke
the remove note and pass it.
Look how easy this is.
And then for add note, right?
Say Note View model again that add note and pass it like that.
And just like that, we have it all mapped out.
Let's go ahead and convert this a single line like that.
This as well.
Convert a single line lambda.
And voila!
Of course, you can see that notes is not being called anywhere because we removed everything.
Look, I don't need that.
All I have to do, say notes app.
And now I'll have to, of course, because it's expecting a note view model, right?
So I'm going to create another variable here.
So we'll note the model.
I want to see note review model as such.
And I'm going to say by a few models like this to instantiate our view model.
This is going to be passed along here.
Because we need to pass our notes if you model.
I'm going to pass a notes if you want to like this, right, because they have the same name across
because they have the same name, right?
The argument, the name argument and the actual value you can just say might like this.
If we had a different related or unrelated composable, we could do the same thing.
This Northview model is the source of all truth is the single source of the truth when it comes to data.
Now, if I run this, it will still work as it was working before.
However, we would sleep better at night because we all know that our app is working.
And voila, as you see, it's loading.
It's calling this minute.
Block here, and we're loading our note list right away with notes that are source and get the notes
right to dummy notes, in fact.
And still, if I click any of this, I should be able to delete them as a clicking.
I'm deleting them.
So it's happening because we said here on the note, say note, if you model, remove and remove that
note.
So we're removing all the dummies.
Now, if you add something, let's say hello, New Day.
Let's see if that works.
And voila, note added, Everything works perfectly and I can delete and dummy.
I can delete the one, we just had it now.
I can continue.
And there you have it.
All right, so, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say this.
What do you have learned is one of the best things, one of the best things, I think, in my opinion,
that it was ever put together the concept in a way because it allows us to separate the concerns.
Now anybody can just go to that one source of truth that that single source of truth, which is our
Northview model.
And look, we can add all kinds of functions here.
Everything we need that will govern our data flow can add notes.
We can remove notes.
If we want to edit notes, we can also do that from here, whatever we want to do.
We can do it from here because then any composer that needs to use this fee model can just implement
can just go ahead and get this view model and start doing the work.
We no longer have to worry about states that are left behind of states that are not synchronized.
No more of that, just one place where we can get that state and data.
Brilliant.
Brilliant, indeed.
And just like that, we have a working application.
You can play around with this app and do all sorts of things.
And please take the time to study this application because what we've just learned is going to come
really handy as you continue with compose or Android development in general.
The understanding of view model, just think of it as an entity that is outside of the structure of
this tree that we have activities and of course, composable that way.
Any composable, any class that needs to data the integral data that is there.
All he has to do is get that view model essentially and get it and start using it done.
All right.
Very good.
Congratulations.
And again, play around with this concept will come back to this concept many, many times, and I want
you to really a grasp of this so that it's not too difficult, right?
So take your time.
I can't take your time.
No rush here, and I'll see you next.